Walkthrough tutorial (#14)
FuelLabs/fuel-debugger: docs/walkthrough.md

## An example project

First, we need a project to debug, so create a new project using

```bash

> forc init --script dbg_example && cd dbg_example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
forc new --script dbg_example && cd dbg_example
```

## Setting up the debugging

We can start up the debug infrastructure. On a new terminal session run `fuel-core --db-type in-memory`; we need to have that running because it actually executes the program. Now we can fire up the debugger itself: `fuel-debugger`. Now
if everything is set up correctly, you shoould see the debugger prompt (`>> `). You can use `help` command to list available commands.

Now we would like to inspect the program while it's running. To do this, we first need to send the script to the executor, i.e. `fuel-core`. To do so, we need a *transaction specification*, `tx.json`. It looks something like this:

```json
{
    "Script": {
        "byte_price": 0,
        "gas_price": 0,
        "gas_limit": 1000000,
        "maturity": 0,
        "script": [],
        "script_data": [],
        "inputs": [],
        "outputs": [],
        "witnesses": [],
        "receipts_root": "0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000"
    }
}
```

However, the key `script` in should contain the actual bytecode to execute, i.e. the contents of `out/debug/dbg_example.bin` as a JSON array. The following command can be used to generate it:

```bash

> python -c 'print(list(open("out/debug/dbg_example.bin", "rb").read()))'

Reviewer: hmm this didn't quite work for me, I got this escaped version:

```
python -c 'print(list(open("out/debug/dbg_example.bin", "rb").read()))'
['\x90', '\x00', '\x00', '\x04', 'G', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\xcc', ']', '\xfc', '\xc0', '\x01', '\x10', '\xff', '\xf3', '\x00', '\x1a', 'L', 'P', '\x00', '\x91', '\x00', '\x00', '\x18', 'P', 'A', '0', '\x08', ']', 'C', '\xf0', '\x00', '_', 'M', '\x00', '\x01', 'P', 'A', '0', '\x00', ']', 'C', '\xf0', '\x01', '_', 'M', '\x00', '\x00', 'P', 'A', '0', '\x00', ']', 'E', '0', '\x00', ']', 'C', '\xf0', '\x02', '\x16', 'A', '\x14', '\x00', 's', '@', '\x00', '\x14', '\x90', '\x00', '\x00', '"', 'P', 'A', '0', '\x00', 'P', 'A', '0', '\x00', ']', 'E', '0', '\x00', ']', 'C', '\xf0', '\x00', '\x10', 'A', '\x04', '@', '_', 'M', '\x00', '\x00', 'P', 'A', '0', '\x08', 'P', 'A', '0', '\x08', ']', 'E', '0', '\x01', 'P', 'A', '0', '\x00', ']', 'A', '0', '\x00', '\x1b', 'A', '\x14', '\x00', '_', 'M', '\x00', '\x01', '\x90', '\x00', '\x00', '\x0e', 'P', 'A', '0', '\x08', ']', 'A', '0', '\x01', ']', 'G', '\xf0', '\x03', '\x13', 'E', '\x10', '\x00', 's', 'D', '\x00', '(', '\x90', '\x00', '\x00', '*', '3', '@', '\x00', '\x00', '\x90', '\x00', '\x00', '0', ']', 'K', '\xf0', '\x04', 'P', 'E', '0', '\x10', '_', 'M', ' ', '\x02', 'P', 'E', '0', '\x10', ']', 'E', '0', '\x02', '4', '\x00', '\x04', '\x11', ']', 'C', '\xf0', '\x01', '$', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', 'G', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x01', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x05', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x00', '\x08']
```

Author: Right, Python version 2/3 compatibility issues of course. I'll specify Python 3.

```
>> r 16 17

reg[0x10] = 1        # reg16
reg[0x11] = 1        # reg17
```

So on the first round the numbers are `1` and `1`, so we can continue to the next iteration:

```
>> c

Stopped on breakpoint at address 124 of contract 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000

>> r 16 17

reg[0x10] = 2        # reg16
reg[0x11] = 1        # reg17

```

And the next one:

```
>> c

Stopped on breakpoint at address 124 of contract 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000

>> r 16 17

reg[0x10] = 3        # reg16
reg[0x11] = 2        # reg17

```

And fourth one:

```
>> c

Stopped on breakpoint at address 124 of contract 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000

>> r 16 17

reg[0x10] = 4        # reg16
reg[0x11] = 6        # reg17

```

And round 5:

```
>> c

Stopped on breakpoint at address 124 of contract 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000

>> r 16 17

reg[0x10] = 5        # reg16
reg[0x11] = 24       # reg17

```

At this point we can look at the values

16 | 17
---|----
1  | 1
2  | 1
3  | 2
4  | 6
5  | 24

> From this we can clearly see that the left side, register `16` is the `counter` variable, and register `17` is `result`. Now we the counter equals it the given argument, so the loop terminates. So when we continue, the program ends:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From this we can clearly see that the left side, register `16` is the `counter` variable, and register `17` is `result`. Now the counter equals the given factorial function argument `5`, and the loop terminates. So when we continue, the program finishes without encountering any more breakpoints:
```
